Assignment Solutions


1. What is statically typed and Dynamically typed Programming Language?
Ans: Statically typed:-  if the memory of the variable is given during the compilation time itself then such types of programming languages are called as “Statically typed” Eg: C,C++,Java


Dynamically typed:-if the memory of the variable is given during the execution time itself then such types of  programming language are called as  Dynamic typed  Eg: Python,JavaScript etc.


2. What is the variable in Java?
Ans: Variable is a type of container which contains the data is called variable.There are different - different types of variables which contain different types of data.


Variables are classified into two types such as-
a.primitive types :- such types of variables containing single data(such as int a=10;) are called primitive types.
Primitive data type i.e-
. byte 
. short 
. int etc
 
b.Non-primitive types:such types of variables which contain multiple similar types of data are called Non-primitive types .
Strings
Arrays
Classes
Interfaces


3. How To Assign a Value To Variable?
Ans: In statically typed programming language have some unique way to assign a value to variable such as:-
Int a=10;
String name=”Vinay”;
Char ch=’v’; and ect.


In this above examples have four things i.e
Variable name,identifier,assigning operator,and its value.


4. What are Primitive Data types in Java?
Ans :if the variable contains only one data is called primitive data type .Ex:-
byte
short
int
long
char
double etc.


5. What are the Identifiers in Java?
Ans: Identifier is a symbolic name which is used for identification purposes.Identifier such as variable name,method name,class name etc .such as -
String name=”Vinay”; 
In the above example name is an identifier which is used for identification.


Method name:-
Public static void Sum(){};


Here Sum() is a method name.


6. List the Operators in Java?
Ans: Operators in Java:


- Arithmetic operators
- Relational Operator
-Assignment Operator
-Unary Operator
-Bitwise Operators




7.Explain about Increment and Decrement operators and give an examples
Ans: Increment and Decrement Operators in Java are used to increase or decrease the value by 1. For example, Incremental operator ++ is useFul to increase the existing variable value by 1 (i = i + 1). Moreover, the decrement operator – – is useFul to decrease or subtract the current value by 1 (i = i – 1). The syntax of both increment and decrement operators in Java Programming to preFix or postFix is


Increment Operator E ++x or x++   
Decrement OperatorE --x or x-